= J-Confs 

image:https://travis-ci.org/13tomoore/J-Confs.svg?branch=master["Build Status", link="https://travis-ci.org/13tomoore/J-Confs"]

A Java project developed by students during the https://github.com/oliviercailloux/java-course[Java course] taught at Université Paris-Dauphine (in http://www.mido.dauphine.fr/[MIDO] L3 Apprentissage).

The code is hereby published under the *MIT License*, with their permission. +

This project is producted by 5 students : link:https://github.com/aliliKM[Alison KOUDOUSSOU MESSAN], link:https://github.com/jacquesmoati[Jacques MOATI], link:https://github.com/13tomoore[Tom MOORE], link:https://github.com/nikolaspaci[Nikola SPACI] and link:https://github.com/feLlx[Félix VITAS].

=== Delivery schedule for 2019

[width="80%",cols="^7,^7,^8,^9,18",options="header"]
|=========================================================
|Delivery | Deadline | Expected effort | SM/PO | TEAMS

|1|20th May, 2019 |10 h | link:https://github.com/feLlx[Félix Vitas] |Team 1 : Alison & Jacques +
Team 2 : Nikola & Tom 
|2| 3rd June, 2019 |15 h | link:https://github.com/jacquesmoati[Jacques MOATI]| Team 1 : Alison & Tom +
Team 2 : Nikola & Félix

|3|17th June, 2019 | 10 h | link:https://github.com/aliliKM[Alison Koudossou Messan]| Team 1 : Nikola & Tom +
Team 2 : Jacques & Félix

|4|29th June, 2019 | 10 h | link:https://github.com/nikolaspaci[Nikola Spaci]| Team 1 : Alison & Tom +
Team 2 : Jacques & Félix


|=========================================================

=== Delivery 1

	* *Tasks done*
	
		. Draw the outlines of the project we expect at the end of the semester.
		
		. Creation of a repository for everyone using a __fork__ on GitHub (C), you can find it link:https://github.com/13tomoore/J-Confs[here].
		
		. The SM/PO writes in the README.adoc of the project, write there the outline of the four iterations, with more details for the coming iterations.
		
		. Uptade dependencies in the POM.xml, especially check link:https://github.com/google/guava[Guava]. 
		
		. Clean repository : gitignore, Move the old docomentation (in the former folder "Présentation") in a folder called '*Doc*', delete useless files.
		
		. Enumerate the classes, methods and interfaces that have been done in the previous project, established what is working and what is not working (answer why), what could be done (excel sheet on our Google Drive.
		
		. Create a new branch called '*dev*' on GitHub repository.
		
		. Resolve link:https://travis-ci.org/[Travis] Build


=== Delivery 2 
	* *Tasks done*
	    . The SM/PO rewrite the README.adoc of the project, with much more details about the task for "TASK TO DO" in the curent iteration. +
	    Write a clean README.adoc with asciidoc format. 
	    
	    . Write an email @ __Jean-Christophe Gay__ asking him clear explanation of how to access to the intranet of the Université Paris-Dauphine +
	    
	    . Resolve warnings (mostly unused libraries)
	    
	    . Check if the Build Status on link:https://travis-ci.org/[Travis] is still working
	    
	    . Improve readability of the code, use immutable object where it is intended (proceed by subject)
	    
        . Apply the best practices using Guava on the existing code. +
            e.g. for __equals__ method using Guava.
        Code JUnit test for these classes :
                *** ConferenceWriter
                *** ConferencesShower
                *** ReverseGeoCode
                
        . Apply a Javadoc with defensive programming (preconditions).
        
        . Redefine some raised exception that are too much generic.
        
        . Make a link between an ICalendar file and a researcher. 
        
        . About refactoring : 
        .. New constructors (using non Null)
        .. Immuable Conference (delete setters)
                
        . Modify *ConferenceGUI* with the possibilities :
        .. For the user to choose his ICalendar
        .. Every conferences of this ICalendar should be displayed on the screen
        .. Making possible editing a conference instead of Recreating/Deleting this conference
        ..  Making possible to display a map with the location of a conference selected and being able to search about its itinary.
        .. Writing and checking the __@annotations__


=== Delivery 3 

	* *Tasks TO DO*
	
		. The SM/PO update the README.adoc of the project with asciidoc format. 
		
		. Write a file in asciidoc format rewriting the  @ __Jean-Christophe Gay__ explaination (@ __Olivier Cailloux__)
								
        . Check if we can execute the app using one single __main__
            
        . About refactoring : 
	        .. See and change automatic changes of bottow on the graphic interface
	        .. GUI Patterns         
	        .. Resolve new warnings
	        .. Update JUnit 5 dependencies on the POM.xml
	        .. Create packages
	        .. Delete unused classes (such as IO, an empty class)
	              
        . News : 
         	.. Export an ics file to github
         	.. Store a github file
         	.. Advance on the map (distance and path between the two points)  	

=== Delivery 4 

	* *Tasks*
		. The SM/PO update the README.adoc to say elements that we want that the teacher take into account for the overall assessment.
		. The SM/PO fix packages and format of the code. 
		. Team 1 : New feature : add and edit conferences online (https://www.fruux.com).
		. Team 2 : New feature : try to display a route to the conference location
		. Team 1 & 2 : Document the added functionality and say what has not been done, to inform the next group.
	
=== Difficultés
	
Durant ce projet nous avons rencontré des difficultés dans la compréhension du code existant. En effet le code était mal organisé (absence de packages ) et parfois difficilement compréhensible dans certaines méthodes qui étaient mal documentées. De plus, cela nous a pénalisé car certaines consignes à respecter au sein des PR n’étaient pas respecté dans la branche master initiale.

La branche comportait des centaines de messages d’avertissements, du code non formaté et mal documenté (Javadoc non explicite). Ainsi lors des PR, un grand nombre des remarques que nous recevions de votre part faisaient référence à du code réalisé par l’ancien groupe. Nous avons donc consacré un temps conséquent afin de corriger le code existant entraînant ainsi un retard dans l’implémentation de nouvelles fonctionnalités.
Concernant les fonctionnalités implémentées, nous nous sommes concentrés sur des tâches s’axant autour de la carte et le stockage de conférence en ligne.

Pour la partie concernant la carte, nous avons perdu beaucoup de temps à essayer de chercher une documentation ou des tutoriels sur l’utilisation de l’API MapsForge. Par la suite nous avons perdu beaucoup de temps à chercher dans le github de l’API quelles classes et méthodes pourraient nous aider sans succès.

Pour le stockage de conférence en ligne nous avons dû faire face à une absence de documentation pour la mise en place de cette fonctionnalité (fruux reconnaît que sa documentation pour développeurs est assez limitée).

Cela a impacté notre planning prévisionnel car nous avons initialement prévu d’implémenter la fonctionnalité d’ajout et d’édition d’une conférence en une seule itération (3). Mais certaines méthodes présentes au sein de la librairie caldav4j ne fonctionnaient pas sur la version stable de la librairie (ajout et modification d’évènements) . Cette version stable était par ailleurs préconisé au sein du répertoire github officiel de la librairie. Nous avons donc consacré un temps important à chercher l'origine du problème qui venait de la version préconisée qui rencontrait des dysfonctionnements (voir https://github.com/caldav4j/caldav4j/blob/master/README.md ).

Ainsi durant l’itération 4 nous avons dû effectuer une montée de version (version « rc » de la librairie) qui a entraîné une refonte de certaines parties du code (montée de version pour HTTPClient). La fonctionnalité de stockage en ligne a donc occupée l’ensemble de l’itération 4 de l’équipe 1 les empêchant de s’intéresser à la fonctionnalité de recherche du chercheur sur l’annuaire intranet de Dauphine.

Afin d’éviter que le prochain groupe rencontre ces difficultés nous avons ajouté une documentation pour le stockage de conférence en ligne et pour la map. De plus nous avons résolu les problèmes de formatage, de packages et de code illisible leur permettant ainsi de se focaliser sur l’implémentation de nouvelles fonctionnalités.
			